.\" Process this file with 
.\" groff -man -Tascii xuwc.1
.\"
.TH XUWC 1 "June 2012" XUTools "User Manuals"
.SH NAME 
xuwc \- Count the number of strings in the language of a grammar production

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B  xuwc 
.B [ 
.I --count 
.B ]
.B [ 
.I --re_count 
.B ]
.B [ 
.I --context
.B ]
.B [ 
.I --re_context
.B ]
.I xupath
.I file
.B ...

.SH DESCRIPTION
xuwc(1) 
generalizes 
.BR wc(1) 
to count the number of strings in the language
of an xupath.  

Traditional 
.BR wc(1) 
counts the number of words, lines, characters, or
bytes contained in each input file or standard input.  

xuwc(1) generalizes 
.BR wc(1) 
to count strings in the language of an xupath
and to report those counts relative to language-specific contexts.

The xupath specifies the strings to count as well as the context in
which to report counts.  When no options are specified, 
.BR xuwc(1) 
will count the number of matches to the xupath within the file.  

All files are processed in the order specified.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP --count
The production references that we should count.  By default, this is
the final step in the provided xupath.  However, this may also be set
to builtin:byte, builtin:character, builtin:word, or builtin:line.  

.IP --count_regexp
Count the number of occurrences in the language of this regular
expression.  We currently use Python regular expressions but this may
change.  

.IP --context
The context in which to report counts.  By default, this is the file.
However, it could be any step of the xupath.  If one uses the count
option, however, context should be set to the final step in
the xupath

.IP --re_context
One could imagine (emphasis on imagine) specifying a regular
expression that defines a context in which to report counts.  This is
not implemented.

.SH FILES
Currently, the 
xuwc(1) 
command operates on hard-coded grammars.  In
future releases, however, it will operate on grammars in the XUPATH.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP XUPATH
The path at which the xutools grammar library resides

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Currently there are no error codes.  In future releases, however, we
will be thinking more carefully about error codes and how to report
these errors back to the calling environment.

.SH BUGS
There are likely plenty as this is the first release of xuwc(1).

.SH AUTHOR
Gabriel A. Weaver <Gabriel.A.Weaver at xutools dot com>

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wc(1),
.BR xudiff(1),
.BR xugrep(1)
